Hello and welcome back to that band's course on our programming and this tutorial we're going to quickly
recap on what we learned in the section about the ply family functions.
So in this section we learnt number one how to apply family of functions works.
So we learned which functions are members of this family and also how these functions are structured
how they're created why they created what their designation and purpose is.
And this was an important tutorial because people oftentimes who come to are for the first time they
can get confused about these apply functions because they are indeed very different to what you experience
in other programming languages and they can be a bit of putting sometimes but so we discussed how they
work we looked at a few theoretical examples and that was very important to get us into the mode of
understanding how to work with these functions.
Then we had quite an interesting tutorials well on how to recreate plie statement we have a for loop
.
So this is rarely covered.
I've actually never seen this covered in tutorials on our.
But for me personally this is what made it all click when I thought about the Apply function and I thought
hold on like why aren't we using a loop.
And you hear that a lot of the time like don't use loops these apply functions.
But then I actually sat down and recreated the Apply function with a loop.
Same thing what we did in the tural and it all made sense.
It made sense that its foster chews up life function takes less code less effort to create but the result
is the same.
So when you're starting all of these apply functions if you think of them in this sense if you recreate
a couple of them with the four loops maybe that will help you grasp their essence better.
And for the first couple of times use them in the first five or 10 and 20 times you'll still be thinking
in terms of loops.
But then after a while it'll become second nature and you'll be able to just think in terms of apply
functions and completely forget about loops.
But perhaps sometimes this transitional step might be helpful when you're moving on from loops to apply
functions maybe give it a go and see if you can recreate some of them and see if that helps you better
grasp what these functions are all about and how they work.
Next we learn when to use the plie l apply or a supply function so those are the main three that we
talked about and we learned what the differences are so apply as applied to matrices apply apply to
lists or vectors and it returns a list as applied is kind of a simplified version of L apply and is
applied to also lists of vectors and also.
But in this case it returns a vector or a matrix rather than a list.
Next we learn how to combine apply with the square brackets operator.
This is a very powerful combo which allows you to extract elements of components of a list so you can
extract single elements or you can extract rows or columns.
You can do whatever you like.
So basically we learned that you can use the square brackets even though it doesn't look like a function
.
We can still use them just to put the first square brackets in quotation marks and put it into the L
apply and that way you can access elements of Cobbe of components of that list that you're working with
.
Next we learnt how to nest your own functions in the applied type functions.
Also a very useful technique because that gives you that extra versatility extra level of flexibility
and control over your code.
You're not limited to just functions that are pre-created in are for instance mean or rowme means or
call means and stuff like that so you are actually able to create your own type of functions any combinations
of operations that you want and then put those into apply functions and that is what really makes the
Apply functions very powerful.
Also we learned how to nest apply type functions within each other so how to nest apply if it apply
or as apply or you can use any combinations and just like nesting your only functions feel that Plouff
functions.
This is a very powerful combination as well.
And then finally we learn how to use that which emacs function and the WHICH mind functions by themselves
.
They're not that complicated.
But we did apply them in a very complex example where we had a function inside an apply function inside
another apply function.
So that tutorial was quite advanced.
But generally speaking the wish Max and Wichman functions are not that complicated at all.
So hopefully you'll learn a lot from this section.
This is the true power of R and after this section you are now ready for very complicated types of analyses
because you're not just going to be thinking about creating loops all the time.
You have these extremely powerful tools like apply functions and nesting with them with each other or
nesting your own functions within apply functions which allow you to do sophisticated analysis very
very quickly and that is one of the greatest advantages of our.
So hopefully had fun in this section and you learnt a lot.
And until next time happy coding